Hello and welcome back to the course on blog chain.
And today we're talking about security.
So we've got two topics.
If you're a virtual machine and gas let's see how they relate to security.
OK.
So here's our system so far.
Our set up we've got the blockade we've got the network.
We've got the smart contracts we've got the data the transactions we've got everything like you can
see it's the system has grown is becoming so complex and in complex systems you have security threats
you have more and more opportunities for things to go wrong.
And what's our so of sort of this question What are the most obvious most evident security threats that
might have popped up along our discussion so far.
So we've already discussed one and one of the that one was the whole notion of loops of why bitcoin
because the script never included loops because somebody might maliciously or by accident include an
infinite loop or a very heavy load that would really slow down the computations on all of these nodes
and slow down the network and people would be happy and so and so they didn't could loose.
But the theorem did so we still haven't discussed how they solved that problem.
How come their loops are not a potential threat.
And on the other hand a second problem that might have popped into your mind when we were discussing
smart contract is these smart contracts are run on every single node on every single machine in the
network.
How convenient is that for a virus.
If somebody writes a virus is a smart contract and sends it out on the block and gets copy to all the
computers then all of a sudden it's the end like everybody is everybody's machine is infected and let
alone the virus is what if people what if these smart contracts gain access to your private files.
They're running on your machine what if they access your files that you have on your hard drive and
any Like maybe even your webcam and things like that.
Who needs that.
Why.
Where is the protection from that.
And so those are the two main security threats that we're going to read today.
So this outline them here.
We've got viruses and access to profiles and infinite loops or even just heavy computations.
That's also sufficiently bad.
So let's have a look how is this Prawle all these problems solved.
The first problem in our list which is the viruses what's what is done about that.
Is when you participate in the network you actually get a theorem virtual machine or otherwise EDI.
So it's the first topic here in our header.
And what that UVM is is it.
Say it's a virtual machine that is running on your computer and therefore it completely encapsulates
everything that runs there.
So this smart contract it actually runs it.
It is on your computer but inside your computer it's kind of like having a computer inside of your computer.
You have that virtual machine inside your computer and nothing can get out of that virtual machine.
It's it's like the smart contract or any other program that's running on the virtual machine doesn't
know then anything outside of that virtual machine exists.
You're guaranteed that anything that happens on the virtual machine stays on the virtual machine.
So if something were to go wrong it would only go wrong inside that virtual machine and you could just
delete it off your computer.
It would never actually spread onto your the rest of your hard drive and all everything else that you
have on your machine.
And at the same time also what that means is because it's in secluded because it's detached from the
rest of your computer.
That means the smart contract will never have access to your files to your profiles.
To other things that you have on your computer.
It will never ever be able to see them.
And so there you have that confidence and security.
That's your you're safe that your privacy safe.
So that's how they solve that.
Viruses and privacy issue of the theory and virtual machine.
And now we're going to talk about the second issue of infinite loops or heavy calculations.
How do they solve that.
That's that's a that's a tough one to solve.
Well what that's where the concept of gas comes in.
It's a really cool concept in my view.
It's an ingenious solution and the solution is for any computation that's run on the block chain.
The developers of the smart contract need to pay all the smart contracts in today.
So you have an ocean of gas and you use that gas to pay for any calculations that you need to run and
it's like a car for a car to run for a car to move.
It has to use gas.
Same same concept here.
And let's have a look at some examples here.
So this is there's a list of costs or like a table of costs and this is like the official information
from a theory.
So here they will they specify how much gas units it costs to run an operation for example to run an
addition operation it costs three gas three units of gas to run a multiplication operation cost five
units of gas.
Is more expensive to run multiplication operation because more competition is having to run a subtraction
operations three units of gas integer division 5 and you can look 3s for example bitwise AND operation
three side less than comparison three and so on get balance of the given accounts 400 gas get size accounts
called 700 and so on.
So was this create a new account or associated code thirty two thousand gas.
So you can see that every single operation cost gas and these are like these are very low level operations
so the coal that you call it and solidity then gets converted to computer code like very low level code.
And then these prices are applied.
And so right away you can see how that solves the problem that if your program is too computationally
heavy or if you have an infinite loop in it you will very quickly run out of gas and it will stop working.
It will just that's it.
The end.
And that means first of all you'll run out of money so you'll be kind of penalized for writing that
code.
And second is that there will be no problem in the network because it will very quickly stop and the
other thing but like that's the solution.
But what I really love about this whole concept is that it incentivizes people to write good code.
Meaning that you don't want to make your code inefficient even by a tiny bit because going to cost you
more so you're going to want to write the most efficient code possibly going to come up with really
smart solutions to the problems.
And that's a great thing because if the future of the Internet is on the block chain.
The future of the world if Web 3.0 always on the block chain then that means we're going to have a very
efficient future.
We're going to have very efficient programs running and that's really cool because how often do you
go on a Web site and takes like 5 seconds to load.
Or like seven seconds to load.
Or you're running a program on your computer and it's just very slow and you don't see why it's so slow
and it's unnecessary slow.
It's simply a lot of the time simply because people don't write efficient code.
But when you have to pay for your code for your code to run there's a whole different story you're going
to put in much more effort and try to be efficient.
So I think it's a very smart solution like that.
Then I also wanted to show you that ether is a gas station down in fall.
We hear and like I don't use this website I'm not a developer but if you are going to be developing
things you might want to check it out.
I think what it does is it helps you estimate how much gas you're going to be paying ants and so on.
So yeah the point is it exists.
They actually take care of the community and they make sure that you know you have access to information
like that.
And the other thing I also want to mention is that in theory you might know that they have either as
the cryptocurrency.
So why do they need gas.
Why wouldn't they just use ether to pay for the coat.
Well the thing is that the price for esearch fluctuates extremely like extremely all the time.
It's like up and down daily.
And so if these prices were in either if these prices were either then they would like in dollar terms
running like additional operation might cost like half a cent one day and cost 10 cents the other day
and so it would be very predictable to try to know what you're running a program is going to cost.
But he says they priced them in gas.
They just all they need to do is set up the conversion rate between gas and ether.
And that way as the price of either fluctuates they can adjust the price the conversion rate between
gas and either.
And with that I think because again it's a distributed system there's no central authority the way they
decided is as far as I know is by community consensus that conversion rate.
So these are more or less fixed.
And then the conversion rate between gas and either is decided by community consensus in some in some
way.
And so that's how the system works.
And the other thing I wanted to say here is that this now that we know the connection between gas and
ether we can see the difference between ether and Bitcoin.
So the predominant idea behind bitcoin is to create a crook to currency something that people can transact
with and exchange value and pay for services and something that's borderless and transparent and stateless
and can there's no restrictions you don't have it's permission.
You don't have to ask permission for people to send money wherever you like.
And that's the core principle behind bitcoin.
Whereas with a theory I'm with ether even though people do use it to transact people do use it to invest
into.
But at the same time now that we know that it is really that this whole concept of gas ether the idea
behind it is to is not to create a cryptic currency is to create a system and network where people can
run code on the block chain and pay for it with there to create a like to create a system where you
can actually create applications that will run on the block chain.
And payment for those raw running applications as we saw is absolutely necessary because otherwise people
are going to abuse the Bush is going to they are going to write efficient code and so on and so either
is a means to create that environment where programs can be safely run all the created and run on the
block chain.
And that facilitates all the promises always theory.
That's where you're going to have all of these applications all these programs.
All of these decentralized decentralized they are decentralized applications and so that we can move
to a future where there are no central organizations that have the servers where everything is running
so it's just a way for all of that to happen.
It wouldn't be able to we wouldn't have been possible without either because of that whole notion of
the Turing completeness of the like so you can see how it all ties in together in order to have Turing
completeness.
You have to have a cost for these operations Otherwise it's just going to be and that's why ether comes
in and either is therefore not just a cryptocurrency it's actually the means for all of these whole
thing to work.
So it's it's actually much much more than a cryptocurrency that the foundations behind it there are
much more involved than just a means to exchange value.
It's actually to facilitate to empower this whole system.
It's like the fuel the gas they got the gas that's running the whole system.
Eventually if we move to this to them as the gas is going to be running this whole global computer or
the next version of the Internet and to finish off we've got some additional reading.
Interesting.
Like an interesting comparison here because the author took a took some operations and calculated their
cost in U.S. dollars for instance to add or subtract to integers it would cost that many dollars or
for one U.S. dollar you would get thirty seven thousand subtractions or to add to subtract integers
one million times it costs you $26 twice as well.
That's at the time of writing course the prices fluctuate.
So if you're interested to learn a bit more about that then we'll will leave this in the course not.
So there you go.
We talked about two problems two security problems say viruses and X trode files and heavy conditions
and infinite loops and we saw how the theory solves them with the theory of virtual machine and the
whole concept of gas.
I hope enjoyed today's tutorial and I look forward to seeing you back here next time.
Until then bludgeons.